Daily Entries

Day 1 - Monday May 9th

Monday May 9th started off well with the RV rental company calling us to let us know we could pick up the RV early! Great, we thought, we could pick up the RV and start packing it ahead of schedule. Up to this point we had been idly moving our things back and forth across the room in anticipation for our trip.

It was a good thing we got packing early as it took much longer than anticipated. In reality, Grace did all the packing. I packed a few changes of clothes and felt ready for adventure. Grace on the other hand had the forethought to think about things like soap and toilet paper - both of which I would be very grateful for shortly.

The first stop on our trip was the Gietzen house - the Encinitas Gietzens. With the sun sinking we powered through a carb filled dinner of pizza and garlic knots then hit the road. This stint would end up being over 4 hours. Our destination? A walmart. Not for more toilet paper, not yet at least, but for a good night's sleep. 

Believe it or not, Walmart is fairly well known for letting roadtrippers spend the night in their parking lots. However, we found out the hard way that this is only true for a most Walmarts. The rest of the Walmarts have to break the bad news to hopeful travelers. The security guard, who was used to dealing with the grumpies late at night, was surprised to find Grace and I were quite amiable; He let slip that there was a corner of the parking lot that he may forget to patrol.


Day 2 - Tuesday May 10th

We woke bright and early to the sounds of mooing and the smell of dung... ok, not really but it was bakersfield so we were excited to get back on the road. Yosemite lay ahead!

It took  3.5 hours in Whistling Wendy to reach the national park. Once in the park, all attention was on the skys - they had been narrowed by the massive expanses of rock stretching into the sky. After a lecture from the park ranger for not signing my park pass, we were at our first stop, Bridal Veil Falls. This is a very common name for a waterfall but it was anything but common. It was beautiful. A torrential, roaring veil of white turbulence. Unfortunately, both Halfdome and Bridal Veil Falls were closed for remodeling. Who knew natural wonders required so much upkeep.  Oh well, we moved onto our next hike.

One of the hikes we had planned was the John Muir and Mist Trail loop. A 6 mile hike with a beautiful view of Half Dome. At least that's what I've been told. I had vastly over-estimated my endurance at this grade of incline so instead we stopped at Vernal Falls. This was another amazing waterfall. This waterfall was much broader than the last and looked like a never ending crashing wave.

As we got closer to the cascading wall of water we quickly came to understand why it was called Mist Trail. The water pounding the rocks threw tiny droplets into the air that rained down all over the steep, makeshift stoney staircase. We conquered the treacherous pathway, took a victorious selfie and headed back down the trail to complete our hike of 1,000ft in elevation and 4.5 miles.


Day 3 - Wednesday May 11th

Does anyone know what -1 degrees celsius is in Fahrenheit? Whatever it is, it's cold! The only thing that made getting out of bed possible was the knowledge that our diesel engine would warm up quickly and heat us up with it. Even though our day started at 30 degrees Fahrenheit it ended at 72!

Our day today was based around Sacramento, the capital of California. After a full day here I can confidently say that it embodies all of California's ideals.

Due to Covid all indoor tours of the capital building were cancelled. Instead, Grace and I took a tour of the Capital Garden. The capital garden was created with a Victorian theme and has kept that theme ever since. One of the trends was to collect trees from all around the world as a display of wealth. There have been many additions since such as a grove made up of trees from different civil war battle fields.

The tour ended at the doors of the capital building where a small group of protesters were yelling about prison communities. We skirted past them and happened to run into a Santa Fe Christian tour group from our old High School! What are the odds?

After exploring the echoing halls and massive rotunda, we paid our respects to the looming picture of the terminator and former president Ronald Reagan.

English people like to walk, I know that now. We walked several miles from the capital building to the Sacramento History Museum. Here we learned a lot about the gold rush and the checkered past of Sacramento. One of the interesting things that stuck out to Grace was the letters written from immigrants back home to their loved ones. They were obviously written from the heart and it was palpable even this far into the future. Something I found intriguing was the canning machine they had preserved in the exhibit as well as the histroy of hallow sidewalks built tens of feet off the ground to avoid flood waters.

We left the museum with a 2.5 hour drive ahead and new perspective on California politics. 




Monday May 9th-We left San Diego and drove three hours towards Bakersfield. We arrived in Bakersfield around 11:30pm, and found a local Walmart to set up camp for the night around midnight. 

Tuesday May 10th-We arose early the next morning to make our trek to Yosemite. We left around 6am, only brushing our teeth, but staying in our pajamas and eating breakfast along the road. While Cameron drove, I worked on my laptop on various tasks, and we caught up on all our favorite podcasts. After a 3.5 hour drive, we made it to the outer rim of Yosemite. I felt like a true explorer as we pulled into the National Park and presented our “Annual Pass” for the parks, something Cameron had looked into earlier. We drove through the windy mountain roads of Yosemite, clinging onto our seats as we made some sharp turns, and after 45 minutes of driving through beautiful forests and rock formations, we made it to Bridal Veil Falls. Although the falls look beautiful, the base was unfortunately closed due to renovations on the parking lot. We were able to get out of the car though and walk around a few different viewpoints for Bridal Veil Falls. We also captured lots of photos. After Bridal Veil Falls, we drove another ten minutes to Mist/John Muir Hike. It was a very steep hike, that forced us to stop a few times along the way to take a sit-down break. Although the hike was only 4.5 miles